Allow secret test cases to use .statement and .download (#516)
Kattis/problem-package-format: spec/2025-09.md

- `output_validator_args` defines arguments passed to the output validator for the test case.
- `input_visualizer_args` defines arguments passed to the input visualizer for the test case.
- `output_visualizer_args` defines arguments passed to the output visualizer for the test case.
- When `full_feedback` is `true`, the following should be made available to a solver that didn't pass the test case:

>     - contents of `.in.statement` if it exists, otherwise the given `.in` file.

Author: No, I agree that it should be `.in.download` first, secondly `.in.statement`, and lastly `.in`.
```suggestion
    - contents of `.in.download` if it exists, otherwise `.in.statement`, otherwise the original `.in` file.
```

>     - contents of `.in.statement` if it exists, otherwise the given `.in` file.

Author: Nvm, see other suggestion further down

    - the produced output (stdout), 
    - any error messages (stderr),
    - the illustration created by the output visualizer (if applicable),

>     - contents of `.ans.statement` if it exists, otherwise the `.out` if it exists, else the `.ans` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - the expected output.
```

>     
>   The test case with full feedback should also be available for download; the rules determining which files are provided are specified in [Test Cases with Full Feedback](#test-cases-with-full-feedback).

Author: ```suggestion
    
For a submission that fails a test case with `full_feedback` set to `true`, the relevant feedback files for that test case should be available for download for that submission. These files are not made available otherwise; the rules determining which files are provided are specified in [Test Cases with Full Feedback](#test-cases-with-full-feedback).
```

#### Samples shown in the problem statement

By default, the `.in` and `.ans` pairs from `data/sample` are shown in the problem statement.

> This can be configured by using `.out`, `.in.statement`, and `.ans.statement` files.

Reviewer: ...and `.interaction`.

#### Samples shown in the problem statement

> By default, the `.in` and `.ans` pairs from `data/sample` are shown in the problem statement. This can customized by using `.out`, `.in.statement`, and `.ans.statement` files. See more in [Displayed test cases](#displayed-test-cases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the `.in` and `.ans` pairs from `data/sample` are shown in the problem statement.
This can customized by using `.out`, `.in.statement`, and `.ans.statement` files.
See more in [Displayed test cases](#displayed-test-cases).
```

#### Samples shown in the problem statement

By default, the `.in` and `.ans` pairs from `data/sample` are shown in the problem statement.
This can customized by using `.out`, `.in.statement`, and `.ans.statement` files.
See more in [Displayed test cases](#displayed-test-cases).

> 

Author: ```suggestion
This can configured by using `.out`, `.in.statement`, and `.ans.statement` files.
See more in [Displayed test cases](#displayed-test-cases).
```

Validation can be customized by specifying `input_validator_args` and `output_validator_args` in `data/sample/test_group.yaml`.

> ### Test Cases with Full Feedback

Author: ```suggestion
### Test cases with full feedback
```

If a test case has `full_feedback` set to `true` (see [Test Case Configuration](#test-case-configuration)), then by default, the `.in` and `.ans` pair for this particular testcase should be shown as feedback, if the submission fails this test case.
This can customized by using `.out`, `.in.statement`, and `.ans.statement` files. See more in [Displayed test cases](#displayed-test-cases).

By default, the `.in` and `.ans` files for the test cases with full feedback available for download, for the submission that fails this test case.

> This can customized by using `.out`, `.in.statement`, `.ans.statement`, `.in.download`, and `.ans.download` files. See more in [Downloadable test cases](#downloadable-test-cases).

Author: Paragraphs merged in another commit.

Validation can be customized by specifying `input_validator_args` and `output_validator_args` in `data/sample/test_group.yaml`.

> ### Test Cases with Full Feedback

Author: Yes that was unclear, I have changed some things (and some mistakes where it mentioned `sample`). 

Although, I think it should be the following: The test cases with `full_feedback` should be downloadable for a specific submission, if the submission failed on that test case. 

I agree that the test cases `secret` should not be available for download otherwise. (Is that what you meant?)

> ### Test Cases with Full Feedback

Reviewer: Yes.

> If a test case has `full_feedback` set to `true` (see [Test Case Configuration](#test-case-configuration)), then by default, the `.in` and `.ans` pair for this particular testcase should be shown as feedback.

Author: ```suggestion
If a test case has `full_feedback` set to `true` (see [Test Case Configuration](#test-case-configuration)), then by default, the `.in` and `.ans` pair for this particular testcase should be shown as feedback, if the submission fails this test case.
```

> If a `.out` file exists the `.out` file is shown instead of the `.ans` file as feedback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a `.out` file exists, the `.out` file is shown instead of the `.ans` file as feedback.
```

This behavior can be customized by creating files with extension `.in.statement` and `.ans.statement`.
If one of these files exists, its contents replaces that of the file with the same name -- except the `.statement` extension.

Note that it is an error to provide both a `.out` and a `.ans.statement` file.

> By default, the `.in`, `.ans` files for the test cases with full feedback available for download, for the submission that fails this test case.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, the `.in`, `.ans` files for the test cases with full feedback available for download, for the submission that fails this test case. Test cases with full_feedback are only available for download if the submission failed on that specific test case. These files are not made available otherwise.
```

Author: Unnecessary given the new commits.

> By default, the `.in`, `.ans` files for the test cases with full feedback available for download, for the submission that fails this test case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the `.in` and `.ans` files for the test cases with full feedback available for download, for the submission that fails this test case.
```

> Note that the content of `.in.statement` replaces that of `.in` and that the content of `.out` or `.ans.statement` replace that of `.ans` for the download.

Reviewer 2: DRY: see line 778

It is required that at least one submission is used to lower bound the time limit.

### Priority of test case files

> This section summarizes which files take precedence for display and download. Each priority order defines the search order; use the first file that exists. These priorities do not affect what is executed during judging unless explicitly noted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section summarizes which files take precedence for display and download.
Each priority order defines the search order; use the first file that exists.
These priorities do not affect what is executed during judging unless explicitly noted.
```

> This section specifies which files take precedence for display and download. The file with highest precedence that is present is the one that should be used. These priorities do not affect what is executed during judging unless explicitly noted.

Author: ```suggestion
This section specifies which files take precedence for display and download. The file with highest precedence that is present is the one that should be used. These priorities do not affect what is executed during judging.
```

#### Displayed test cases

> For samples and full-feedback test cases, the priority of displayed test cases is as follows.

Reviewer 2: It might be beneficial to list some example scenarios of how test cases might be displayed (in statement, or "in some graphical view" for secret test cases)? Not sure though @niemela

  - Input shown: `.in.statement` > `.in`.

>   - Output shown: `.out` > `.ans.statement` > `.ans`.

Author: Yes, I agree with you.
```suggestion
  - Output shown: `.ans.statement` > `.out` > `.ans`.
```

Note that it is an error to have both `.out` and `.ans.statement`. 

> For interactive and multi-pass problems, if `.interaction` exists, it is the only thing shown for the sample (and for any test case with full feedback). Do not provide `.in.statement`, `.ans.statement`, or `.out` alongside `.interaction`.

Reviewer 2: "Do not" feels weird. We should either say "it is an error" or "it is not recommended".

```suggestion
For interactive and multi-pass problems, if `.interaction` exists, it is the only thing shown for the sample (and for any test case with full feedback). It is an error to provide `.in.statement`, `.ans.statement`, or `.out` alongside `.interaction`.
```

#### Downloadable test cases

For the files shown to the team, if the sample or test case with full-feedback is downloaded, the priority is as follows.
  - Input downloaded: `.in.download` > `.in`.

>   - Output downloaded: `.ans.download` > `.out` > `.ans`.

Reviewer: Why would you want to (or need) override a `.out` for download?

Also, it's an error to have both `.out` and `.ans.statement`, but it's required to have both or neither of `.ans.statement` and `.ans.download`. Hence it's not allowed to have both `.out` and `.ans.statement`.

This is probably an error, but if it isn't it should be pointed out in both places (or neither, and just below).

The `.files` files is included in downloads when present.

> For the same base name, `.in.download` and `.in.statement` must both be present or both absent; likewise for `.ans.download` and `.ans.statement`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the same base name, `.in.download` and `.in.statement` must either both be present or both absent; likewise for `.ans.download` and `.ans.statement`.
```

> For interactive and multi-pass problems, if `.interaction` exists, it is the only thing made available for download for the sample (and for any test case with full feedback). Do not provide `.in.download`, `.ans.download`, or `.out` alongside `.interaction`.

Author: > In fact, having a .in.download and .and.download override with .interaction actually makes sense. (But this again, is impossible with the current rules for both or neither or .statement and .download.

I do not think it makes sense to have `.in.download` and `.ans.download` override `.interaction`, since I cannot think of any case where the information in `.in.download` and `.ans.download` could be made clearer than the information put in `.interaction`.

> Should `.interaction` be made available for download?

I agree that it should not be made available. The information I can think of that should possibly be made available is the conversation history between the team solution and the validator, which can be put into one of the other files made available for the team (right?)

> For interactive and multi-pass problems, if `.interaction` exists, it is the only thing made available for download for the sample (and for any test case with full feedback). Do not provide `.in.download`, `.ans.download`, or `.out` alongside `.interaction`.

Reviewer: > Quickly jumping in here: it is very common that interactive/multi-pass problems have both `.interaction` (to show in the statement) and `.in.download` (to use with the testing tool in `attachments/`) next to `.in` (which may have additional information that should only be visible to the output validator and not the testing tool).

Yes, this exactly!

(That said, how can something that isn't yet quite defined in a format that isn't quite released yet be "very common" 😏)

> For interactive and multi-pass problems, if `.interaction` exists, it is the only thing made available for download for the sample (and for any test case with full feedback). Do not provide `.in.download`, `.ans.download`, or `.out` alongside `.interaction`.

Author: Okay. I am going to change it to:

- `.download` has to exist at together with either a `.statement` or `.interactive`. 
- `.interactive` and `.statement` cannot coexist. 
- `.interactive` is not downloadable. 
- It is okay to have `.interactive` without any `.download` files.

It is required that at least one submission is used to lower bound the time limit.

### Display and download precedence for test case files

This section summarizes which files take precedence for display and download.
Each list order defines the search order, and use the first file that exists.
These rules do not affect what is executed during judging.

#### Displayed test cases

For samples and test cases with `full_feedback` set to `true` (visible to the team only after a failure), the display precedence is:
  - Input shown: `.in.statement` > `.in`.
  - Output shown: `.ans.statement` > `.out` > `.ans`.
Note that it is an error to have both `.out` and `.ans.statement`. 

> For interactive and multi-pass problems, if `.interaction` exists, it is the only thing shown for the sample (and for any test case with full feedback). It is an error to provide `.in.statement`, `.ans.statement`, or `.out` alongside `.interaction`.

Reviewer: In other words: 

The following files can be used to override `.in` for display purposes:
- `.in.statement`
- `.interaction`

At most one of them may be provided, and when it is that file us used instead of `.in` for display.

The following files can be used to override `.ans` for display purposes:
- `.out`
- `.ans.statement`
- `.interaction`.

At most one of them may be provided, and when it is that file us used instead of `.ans` for display.

#### Downloadable test cases

For files shown to teams, if the sample or test cases with `full_feedback` set to `true` (available to the team only after a failure), the download precedence is:
  - Input downloaded: `.in.download` > `.in`.
  - Output downloaded: `.ans.download` > `.out` > `.ans`.

> The `.files` files is included in downloads when present.

Author: Yes. it is a directory. I thought it was a file extension.
Will change it in other places of this commit.

Note that it is an error to have both `.out` and `.ans.download`. 

For the same base name, `.in.download` and `.in.statement` must either both be present or both absent; likewise for `.ans.download` and `.ans.statement`.

> For interactive and multi-pass problems, if `.interaction` exists, it is the only thing made available for download for the sample (and for any test case with full feedback). Do not provide `.in.download`, `.ans.download`, or `.out` alongside `.interaction`.

Author: Fixed, see https://github.com/Kattis/problem-package-format/pull/516/commits/d71d398c0fed0063a9bff4f4ae4f040950a9bf3b

> If you want to make other files available for download, you can use [attachments](#attachments).

Author: https://github.com/Kattis/problem-package-format/pull/516#discussion_r2532003132 I agree with that testing tools should not be mentioned here? 

I have now added it under #Attachments
